[00:05] <konobi> creationix: any idea when you might switch node-router.js to index.js ?
[00:06] <creationix> konobi: rename it?
[00:07] <konobi> creationix: not as easy when you're attempting to include it as a submodule
[00:07] <kriskowal> _ry's talk at ssjs is up http://j.mp/cNRLcv
[00:08] RayMorgan has joined the channel
[00:12] Booster has joined the channel
[00:18] micheil has joined the channel
[00:33] <tmpvar> nice @ _ry 
[00:33] <tmpvar> not bad for being thrown onstage haha
[00:36] kenneth_reitz has joined the channel
[00:36] <kenneth_reitz> anyone build an irc server/client with node.js yet?
[00:36] mikeal has joined the channel
[00:38] <MattJ> Thanks kriskowal :)
[00:38] <MattJ> kenneth_reitz: No, because XMPP is the future :)
[00:38] <kenneth_reitz> haha :)
[00:38] <tmpvar> there have been irc clients
[00:38] <kenneth_reitz> oh?
[00:39] <kenneth_reitz> that's really what i'm looking for
[00:39] <kenneth_reitz> i'm tired of waiting for leafychat to be released
[00:40] <tmpvar> http://github.com/gf3/Jerk
[00:40] <tmpvar> uses an IRC client lib, but is a bot
[00:41] <kenneth_reitz> should be enough to get me started
[00:41] <kenneth_reitz> thanks :)
[00:41] <tmpvar> yup
[00:41] alexiskander has joined the channel
[00:44] <MattJ> kenneth_reitz: and you think I was joking :)
[00:45] <kenneth_reitz> of course it is
[00:45] <kenneth_reitz> you're in irc now though P
[00:45] <kenneth_reitz> * :P
[00:48] huma has joined the channel
[00:49] <huma> don't you think that blue color on the grey background is hard on the eyes at http://nodejs.org/api.html?
[00:52] <kenneth_reitz> huma: not at all
[00:53] <huma> well, disable css works anyway :)
[00:53] bentomas has joined the channel
[00:54] <MattJ> kenneth_reitz: Curious what you're using it for then
[00:58] mikeal has joined the channel
[00:59] bpot has joined the channel
[01:12] icey has joined the channel
[01:13] gwoo has joined the channel
[01:24] dnolen has joined the channel
[01:26] <kenneth_reitz> MattJ: irc?
[01:26] <MattJ> Yeah
[01:26] <kenneth_reitz> freenode and the like
[01:28] dnolen has joined the channel
[01:28] <MattJ> Well, I meant why you would want an IRC client/server in Node
[01:28] <kenneth_reitz> ah
[01:28] <kenneth_reitz> behind the firewall dev/ops realtime logging
[01:33] michaelk^ has joined the channel
[01:33] <MattJ> So why not XMPP? :)
[01:44] bronson has joined the channel
[01:51] icey has left the channel
[01:55] paulbaumgart has joined the channel
[01:55] paulbaumgart has left the channel
[02:00] Booster has joined the channel
[02:14] bpot has joined the channel
[02:19] mikeal has joined the channel
[02:48] binary42 has joined the channel
[03:02] steadicat has joined the channel
[03:14] eelco_ has joined the channel
[03:23] <konobi> _ry: node-waf will only work if node as a whole has been installed somewhere?
[03:30] <creationix>  _ry: where's an example of a tcp client in evcom?
[03:31] <creationix> nm, line 216 of test.c has one
[03:49] <maushu> Hmm, I just had an idea for a node manager that manages node programs.
[03:50] <maushu> It could reload the program if it detected any changes in the files.
[03:52] <tmpvar> that is a possible solution
[03:53] <tmpvar> spawn off a new instance with the new files and route all new requests to the new instance
[03:53] <tmpvar> take down the old ones as they are done working
[03:53] <Tim_Smart> maushu: Yeah the idea has been thrown around aready
[03:53] <tmpvar> spawn new ones to replace the old
[03:53] <maushu> My idea was also using a web interface.
[03:53] <gwoo> Tim_Smart: do you know if anyone has started anything similar?
[03:54] <Tim_Smart> gwoo: There was some work on a require.hot
[03:54] <gwoo> yeah
[03:54] <gwoo> but that's a little different right?
[03:54] <Tim_Smart> otherwise a file watcher + createChildProcess would be fine
[03:54] <tmpvar> someone was attacking this, but then came up to a wall when they hit submodules iirc
[04:05] binary42 has joined the channel
[04:16] joshbuddy has joined the channel
[04:19] erikvold has joined the channel
[04:22] <erikvold> hey guys, I'm trying to install node.js on osx 10.5 and ran ./configure, and I see a few "not found" and "failed" and I'm unsure what to do at this point. Are things ok to move on or not?
[04:23] <tmpvar> umm
[04:23] <tmpvar> did it complete successfully?
[04:23] cloudhea has joined the channel
[04:23] <erikvold> it said "'configure' finished successfully (4.895s)" ok the last line
[04:24] <erikvold> on*
[04:24] <erikvold> should I try to resolve these fails and not founds and try again?
[04:27] mikeal has joined the channel
[04:30] <gwoo> erikvold: use homebrew :)
[04:30] <creationix> erikvold: there will always be some "failed" and "not found" entries depending on your platform.  For example, kqueue only works on osx and epoll only works in linux
[04:30] <mjr_> if you run make, do you get a working node?
[04:30] <creationix> run make and make test to see if it's good
[04:33] rictic has joined the channel
[04:35] <erikvold> k will try
[04:35] <erikvold> gwoo: homebrew?
[04:36] <gwoo> erikvold:  http://github.com/mxcl/homebrew
[04:37] kenneth_reitz has joined the channel
[04:37] gcr has joined the channel
[04:37] <gwoo> erikvold: brew install node :)
[04:37] <erikvold> gwoo: ahh thanks, is that like macports?
[04:38] <gwoo> erikvold: yeah
[04:38] <gwoo> but better
[04:38] <erikvold> cool thanks
[04:38] <mjr_> homebrew looks awesome.  
[04:38] <erikvold> if I run make, can I run brew install node later?
[04:39] <gcr> Hey guys! n00b question here: I have a bunch of jinja2 templates from an... *cough* earlier version of this project, and I'd like to port them to some node.js template system. Which would you recommend I use? I'm willing to learn new syntax, but I really like jinja's block-based template inheritence in particular.
[04:39] <gwoo> erikvold: yup
[04:40] <gwoo> gcr: port jinja to node :)
[04:41] <gwoo> gcr: that would be more fun than changing all your templates
[04:41] <gcr> Hee. I just might take Mustache or something and add that block inheritance on.
[04:41] <gcr> gwoo: True though
[04:42] PyroPeter has joined the channel
[04:43] <gwoo> mjr_: homebrew is totally awesome. not only does it install the minimum quickly, but it also makes it super easy to create your own formulas 
[04:43] <gwoo> im sure the npm will be about the same :)
[04:46] <erikvold> hmm when I tried 'make install' I got the following error: "cannot create folder '/usr/local/include/node/' (original error: [Errno 13] Permission denied: '/usr/local/include/node/')"
[04:47] <gwoo> erikvold: sudo
[04:47] <gwoo> erikvold: sudo make install
[04:48] <maushu> Huh, isn't "for each...in" working?
[04:48] <erikvold> gwoo: ah right tyvm
[04:49] <erikvold> sweet test time
[04:49] <gwoo> nice
[04:49] <erikvold> seems to be good
[04:52] [Pwner]John has joined the channel
[04:56] bpot has joined the channel
[04:56] mikeal has joined the channel
[04:57] <erikvold> w00t got an example.js running thanks gwoo, creationx, and mjr_ !
[04:57] <gwoo> erikvold: storm the castle!
[04:58] <erikvold> =]
[05:06] <maushu> Forget storming! NUKE IT TILL IT GLOWS!
[05:37] bpot has joined the channel
[05:45] siong1987 has joined the channel
[05:58] <creationix> _ry: you there?
[06:10] <konobi> _ry: pull request incoming
[06:11] micheil has joined the channel
[06:15] micheil has joined the channel
[06:23] huma has left the channel
[06:28] <creationix> konobi: ok
[06:54] alex-desktop has joined the channel
[06:59] <mikeal> where is process.compile implemented?
[07:06] dnolen has joined the channel
[07:34] bentomas has joined the channel
[07:36] bentomas has joined the channel
[07:55] abadr has joined the channel
[07:57] pigdude has joined the channel
[07:57] chrischris has joined the channel
[07:57] abadr has joined the channel
[08:25] piranha has joined the channel
[08:27] qFox has joined the channel
[08:43] brapse has joined the channel
[09:09] blastbyte has joined the channel
[09:16] lifo has joined the channel
[09:19] markwubben has joined the channel
[09:21] bryanwb_vm has joined the channel
[09:26] mikeal has joined the channel
[09:31] dnolen_ has joined the channel
[09:32] markwubben has joined the channel
[09:39] felixge has joined the channel
[09:53] mcarter has joined the channel
[09:57] unomi has joined the channel
[10:15] michaelk^ has joined the channel
[10:19] markwubben_ has joined the channel
[10:22] piranha_ has joined the channel
[10:22] BBB has joined the channel
[10:24] Tim_Smart has joined the channel
[10:25] hassox has joined the channel
[10:47] christkv has joined the channel
[10:49] rtomayko has joined the channel
[10:54] bryanwb_vm has joined the channel
[11:25] sveisvei has joined the channel
[11:50] maritz has joined the channel
[11:53] mattpardee has joined the channel
[11:56] <mattpardee> Hi everyone- I've got node.js running on OSX 10.6, and I'm trying to set up an instance of a server running on a subdomain of localhost
[11:56] <mattpardee> is there a way to accomplish this? Attempts to do this by simply listening on the subdomain have resulted in error
[12:01] <michaelk^> mattpardee: let node run on a different port (i.e. 8000) and use something like mod_proxy in your webserver
[12:03] <mattpardee> aha. OK great thanks!
[12:14] <maritz> is there no way to do this in node?
[12:20] sveilin has joined the channel
[12:21] <michaelk^> wouldn't know how unless your subdomain has its own ip
[12:29] <christkv> anybody got the 0.1.30 branch of express running ?
[12:30] <christkv> or does it run on 0.1.31 ?
[12:50] Booster has joined the channel
[12:50] <christkv> never mind
[12:58] BBB has joined the channel
[12:59] <micheil> hassox: you about man?
[12:59] <hassox> hey mate
[12:59] <hassox> sup?
[13:00] <micheil> hassox: I'm working on a rack module, need your help with something, probably best to talk in a separate chat.
[13:08] unomi has joined the channel
[13:49] Davedan has joined the channel
[13:49] hassox has left the channel
[13:49] <Davedan> does node have features similar to erlang?
[13:50] <Davedan> can I spawn processes? is there message passing?
[13:53] <felixge> I wish object creation wasn't this expensive in v8 :|
[14:01] tisba has joined the channel
[14:03] tisba_ has joined the channel
[14:03] binary42 has joined the channel
[14:04] kriszyp has joined the channel
[14:11] Davedan has left the channel
[14:43] malte_ has joined the channel
[14:43] <malte_> Hey, felixge, you here?
[14:43] <felixge> malte_: y
[14:44] <malte_> great :) Does dirty work with .30?
[14:44] <felixge> malte_: no, but that's what I'm working on right now
[14:44] <felixge> malte_: plus making it 10x faster along the way ;)
[14:44] <malte_> :)
[14:45] <felixge> malte_: want to hack something together with it?
[14:45] <malte_> Seen my social graph traversal thing?
[14:45] <malte_> http://node.nonblocking.io/?from=felixge&to=dalmaer
[14:46] <malte_> Want to use dirty as the data store
[14:46] <malte_> its a perfect match
[14:49] <felixge> malte_: yeah, I saw that - it's very cool :)
[14:49] <felixge> malte_: well, hopefully I have a running version of dirty in an hour again
[14:49] <felixge> the code is going to be even simpler than it was
[14:50] <felixge> I'm dropping the dual array/object setup for referencing keys/values in favor of using just an object
[14:50] <felixge> Iterating over all records will suffer in performance, but get/set will increase like crazy
[14:50] <felixge> an iterating over all records is bad / blocking anyway, it's better to build indexes ahead of time using events
[14:51] <malte_> Maybe filter should not be a sync operation (at least to leave room for future optimizations and to keep the API stable after sharding)
[14:57] <malte_> felixge: You sure about dropping the array for storage? The array performance is dramatically better
[14:58] <felixge> malte_: the array is only faster for iterating, everything else is slower
[14:59] <felixge> malte_: removing elements is really difficult / expensive with the array as well. You almost need a special GC for that
[14:59] <malte_> Unless you really care about performance and cheat by caching the array pointers (which is do in my graph to model the edges)
[15:00] <malte_> For general purpose you are most certainly right
[15:00] <felixge> malte_: I know (for var k in obj) is very slow in v8, but I a) hope they will optimize it, b) when this becomes your bottleneck, you should start indexing / building views anyway
[15:00] <malte_> For large collections it can take seconds to start iterating
[15:01] <felixge> malte_: I know. But it feels like that's a bug
[15:01] <felixge> malte_: I also need to test that against v8 head
[15:01] <felixge> malte_: let me do that right now in fact
[15:03] micheil has joined the channel
[15:05] <felixge> malte_: performance seems to be O(1) for me, testing further
[15:09] <felixge> malte_: http://gist.github.com/324400
[15:10] <felixge> malte_: so array is 10x faster for iterating. But I'd rather have this order of magnitude in speed for get/set
[15:10] <malte_> How much do you get in get/set? You save 1 array lookup, right?
[15:14] <felixge> malte_: ok, it's not O(1) :(
[15:14] <felixge> malte_: For 33k objects I get only 2.4 million iterations / sec
[15:14] <felixge> * 33 million keys
[15:15] <felixge> malte_: well, my previous dirty implementation had 100k writes / sec
[15:15] Cainus has joined the channel
[15:15] <felixge> malte_: With the new one, I'm getting 5 million writes / sec
[15:16] <felixge> malte_: I think the old approach could be optimized, but probably not to more than 1 million writes /sec
[15:16] <felixge> and it's a lot more difficult, especially when it comes to removing elements
[15:17] <malte_> I'd like to benchmark delete. Not sure its O(1)
[15:17] <felixge> malte_: benchmark it on object / array?
[15:17] <malte_> Because iterations in most JS implementations on objects is in insertion order
[15:18] <felixge> malte_: well, the problem is that I had an object which mapped id -> arrayIndex. If you remove an element from the array, you need to re-index the whole object map
[15:18] <malte_> VACUUM
[15:18] <felixge> you could also set the old array element to undefined, but that's kind of ugly
[15:18] <felixge> malte_: ?
[15:19] <malte_> set to undefined and then reuse with VACUUM like in any good database :)
[15:19] <felixge> malte_: you still need to be prepared to hit empty elements in a forEach()
[15:19] <malte_> http://www.postgresql.org/docs/7.4/interactive/sql-vacuum.html
[15:21] <felixge> malte_: also with an array, every value needs to be an object so you can attach the '_id' to it
[15:21] <felixge> malte_: that's wasting memory and also, object creation is very expensive in v8
[15:22] <malte_> I know, my graph traversal system reuses all memory on its own stack on every traversal for that reason
[15:22] <felixge> malte_: I'm planning to write additional modules for dirty that add certain features in exchange for certain tradeoffs. 
[15:22] <felixge> one plugin could keep an array with all keys in the database which you could use for o(1) iteration
[15:23] <felixge> write performance would suffer, but all other benefits remain
[15:23] <felixge> But my thinking is, if you really care about performance, you shouldn't rely on mindless iteration over all your records. That's asking to be slow
[15:24] PowerToExt has joined the channel
[15:24] <felixge> If you need to iterate only over portions, you could build your own array-based indexes of those
[15:25] <malte_> Was thinking about extending set to automatically write to indexes using a chain of filters
[15:26] <felixge> malte_: exactly, I want plugins for indexing / view building etc.
[15:26] <felixge> malte_: probably even add some couchdb-style map reduce thingies
[15:26] <felixge> malte_: I'm just thinking the internal storage should focus on a) Simplicity, b) Speed for get/set
[15:26] <felixge> with those design goals reached, everything else is easy to build on top
[15:28] <felixge> malte_: it would also be very easy to write a C++ version of dirty later on. This version could use much more efficient storage internally, while still keeping the ease of use from the outside
[15:28] <malte_> or even an erlang version :)
[15:29] <felixge> malte_: why erlang?
[15:29] <malte_> OK, I don't want to keep you from working on this. Let me know when I can try it in .3 and I'll give it a spin
[15:29] <malte_> just kidding
[15:31] alterecco has joined the channel
[15:35] <felixge> malte_: k, will ping ya :)
[15:37] markwubben has joined the channel
[15:46] BryanWB has joined the channel
[15:47] softdrink has joined the channel
[16:11] blastbyte has joined the channel
[16:33] drostie has joined the channel
[16:35] jashkenas has joined the channel
[17:00] michaelk^ has joined the channel
[17:00] alex-desktop has joined the channel
[17:02] markwubben has joined the channel
[17:17] cloudhead has joined the channel
[17:50] malte_ has joined the channel
[18:03] maushu has joined the channel
[18:03] <maushu> Could anyone help me with this function? https://gist.github.com/104b92d7ed7fdc6de319
[18:03] <maushu> I'm having some sync problems... it always return the same filename for each file.
[18:04] <maushu> My async skills are low.
[18:04] brapse has joined the channel
[18:04] <ashb> `closure
[18:04] <gbot2> see `closures
[18:04] <ashb> `closures
[18:04] <gbot2> http://jibbering.com/faq/faq_notes/closures.html or http://blog.morrisjohns.com/javascript_closures_for_dummies
[18:04] <ashb> read those
[18:04] <ashb> then convert the for loop to be filename.forEach
[18:04] jashkenas has left the channel
[18:04] <maushu> Okay, thanks.
[18:05] <tmpvar> i wish the solution to my problem was that easy lol
[18:09] <maushu> So my problem is that the variable keeps changing till the name of the last filename?
[18:09] <maushu> That is what I thought so. No idea on how to fix it. Like copy by value or somehting.
[18:10] <maushu> Oh wait, ashb told me about forEach.
[18:10] Booster has joined the channel
[18:11] <ashb> basicaly sinceyou are looping anyway and would need a new function to get the scope
[18:11] <ashb> you may as well use forEach which does exactly that for you
[18:11] <maushu> ashb, ah, I understand. Thanks.
[18:11] <maushu> I knew what the problem was, not how to fix it. :3
[18:12] <ashb> i just wish 'function(' was fewer chars :)
[18:14] voodootikigod_ has joined the channel
[18:19] <aurynn> tab-expansion.
[18:22] tisba_ has joined the channel
[18:24] <MattJ> I used an editor with tab expansion once and it drove me insane
[18:24] <MattJ> I guess I type fast enough to not need it
[18:29] jashkenas has joined the channel
[18:32] <jashkenas> _ry: do you want to settle on either process.ARGV or process.argv? Right now, because it's a naked property, you can replace one without affecting the other, and confusion ensues.
[18:32] <tmpvar> im pretty sure that lowercasing GLOBAL,ARGV, etc was in the plan
[18:33] <jashkenas> that would be great.
[18:34] unomi has joined the channel
[18:34] rictic has joined the channel
[18:47] blastbyte has joined the channel
[18:57] cedricv has joined the channel
[19:12] cedricv has joined the channel
[19:16] dandean has joined the channel
[19:16] siculars has joined the channel
[19:23] mikeal has joined the channel
[19:29] Booster has joined the channel
[19:32] Tim_Smart has joined the channel
[19:35] tlrobinson_ has joined the channel
[19:38] abadr has joined the channel
[19:49] <MattJ> jashkenas, tmpvar: Quoth the ChangeLog: " * Downcase process.ARGV, process.ENV, GLOBAL (now process.argv, process.env, global)" (0.1.27)
[19:49] <tmpvar> cool
[19:49] malte_ has joined the channel
[20:03] gwoo has joined the channel
[20:11] piranha has joined the channel
[20:14] <CIA-77> node: 03Rasmus Andersson 07master * r374300c 10/ (doc/api.txt src/node.cc test/simple/test-umask.js): Updated patch of node.cc for supporting reading of umask - http://bit.ly/9BFnAy
[20:14] <CIA-77> node: 03Ryan Dahl 07master * rd67fdcc 10/ Makefile : clean should not docclean - http://bit.ly/cCexum
[20:26] kennethkalmer has joined the channel
[20:28] alisdair has joined the channel
[20:40] hober has joined the channel
[20:40] tilgovi has joined the channel
[20:40] <tilgovi> morning, my nodular friends
[20:41] <tmpvar> hi there
[20:45] kjeldahl_ has joined the channel
[20:48] mikeal has joined the channel
[20:48] <tilgovi> If I want to distribute code for a node addon that serves as a binding to a c++ library and I want to ship the dependencies with it, how should I make it from the waf file?
[20:49] <tilgovi> using python, cd into the dependency dir and popen configure and make?
[20:49] <tilgovi> that would reconfigure it every time, though
[20:50] <tilgovi> I suppose I can just link and include the right paths in the build for the addon and leave it up to build instructions/readme/common sense to build the dependency first
[20:50] jashkenas has left the channel
[20:50] <tilgovi> talking out loud answers at least 45% of my questions
[20:51] <ashb> goood thing my cardboar cutout progammer services are free ;)
[20:51] <ashb> *cardboard
[20:51] <tilgovi> ha. that would make a funny product.
[20:51] <tilgovi> need to bounce an idea off someone? our cardboard cutout programmer standup will listen intently EVERY TIME
[20:53] <mikeal> i want
[20:53] <mikeal> you could use bloxes and make a 3D one :)
[20:55] isaacs has joined the channel
[21:00] kriszyp has joined the channel
[21:04] steadicat has joined the channel
[21:14] tisba has joined the channel
[21:20] felixge has joined the channel
[21:20] felixge has joined the channel
[21:26] <maushu> Can I use setInterval for high values? Like hours?
[21:26] <maushu> I would like to avoid using cron.
[21:27] <maushu> (Not to mention that I want this timer to just run when the program is running.)
[21:27] pdelgallego has joined the channel
[21:33] felixge has joined the channel
[21:43] <tmpvar> maushu, i dont see why not
[21:46] mikeal has joined the channel
[21:46] micheil_mbp has joined the channel
[21:46] binary42 has joined the channel
[21:58] <isaacs> i think node should use a red lemur as its logo
[22:00] <ashb> because of?
[22:01] <mikeal> have you seen a lemu
[22:01] <mikeal> er lemur
[22:01] <mikeal> it's ADORABLE
[22:01] <mikeal> OH
[22:01] <mikeal> if you use a Savannah Cat
[22:01] <mikeal> http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Savannah_cat
[22:02] <mikeal> i know someone who has one in SF :)
[22:02] <isaacs> ashb: you on the nodejs mailing list?
[22:02] <ashb> nope
[22:02] <ashb> too many mailing lists i dont read already :)
[22:03] <tilgovi> mikeal: I want to play with a savannah cat
[22:03] <tilgovi> want to make an introduction :)
[22:03] <tilgovi> ?
[22:04] <mikeal> admc has one
[22:04] <mikeal> he'll be at one of the open Fridays eventualy
[22:05] <tilgovi> man. friday is like the one day of the week I consistently have a meeting I'm supposed to attend.
[22:05] <mikeal> what asshole schedules meetings on a friday?
[22:05] <mikeal> or ever!
[22:05] <tilgovi> i'm not sure I should comment on that.
[22:05] <mikeal> haha
[22:08] itistoday has joined the channel
[22:10] <mikeal> tilgovi: you can stop by any day tho
[22:10] <mikeal> we have an open door
[22:10] <tilgovi> word
[22:10] <mikeal> mde is coming by tomorrow
[22:11] <tilgovi> i just met a kid from slide last night
[22:11] bpot has joined the channel
[22:11] <mikeal> which one?
[22:11] <mikeal> they weren't just laid off?
[22:12] <mikeal> that place is crazy right now
[22:12] <tilgovi> haha. no. he wasn't.
[22:12] <mikeal> over the last few months almost all their senior developers left
[22:12] <tilgovi> his name's cameron.
[22:12] <tilgovi> I don't think he's senior.
[22:12] <mikeal> and then they laid off the remaining decent developers because all they are keeping is super pets 
[22:14] <tilgovi> superpetusa.com?
[22:14] <itistoday> anyone from japan here? Or know japanese immigrants who've lived in the USA whom I can ask a few questions?
[22:14] <mikeal> no
[22:14] <mikeal> https://secure.superpokepets.com/spp/login
[22:14] <mikeal> itistoday: yes
[22:14] <mikeal> mde
[22:14] <tilgovi> oh dear god.
[22:15] <itistoday> mikeal: mde?
[22:15] <mikeal> well, he's not an immigrant, but he's fluent and married to a japanese woman
[22:15] <tilgovi> mikeal: he's also not in here right now, afaict
[22:15] <itistoday> mikeal: any way I could contact him?
[22:15] <mikeal> itistoday: @mde on twitter
[22:15] <mikeal> but writes code in node.js
[22:16] <mikeal> but he writes code in node.js
[22:16] <itistoday> oh man... now to figure out how ask to speak with his wife without sounding like a total creep!
[22:16] <mikeal> hahaha
[22:16] <mikeal> what do you need to ask?
[22:16] <itistoday> i'd like to ask her some questions related to her reaction to american culture
[22:17] <mikeal> is this for the census or something
[22:17] <itistoday> no, for personal research and an essay i'm writing
[22:17] <isaacs> itistoday: isn't jed a japanese-english translator?
[22:18] <itistoday> isaacs: i don't know jed :-(
[22:18] <isaacs> itistoday: he's jed on github, or often enough in this room.  the creator of (fab)
[22:18] <isaacs> seems like a nice chap
[22:19] <itistoday> but i'm specifically interested in speaking with someone who grew up in japan
[22:19] <isaacs> ah, then he's the opposite of what you need.
[22:20] <itistoday> hehe
[22:20] <itistoday> mikeal: any thoughts on how to ask mde?
[22:20] <mikeal> do you speak japanese
[22:20] <mikeal> ?
[22:20] <itistoday> nope :-(
[22:20] <mikeal> she doesn't speak english
[22:20] aryounce has joined the channel
[22:21] <itistoday> ah, well maybe he could pass my questions along to her then
[22:21] <itistoday> (translate them)
[22:21] <mikeal> just @reply him on twitter
[22:21] <isaacs> oh, masuidrive, too
[22:21] <isaacs> (is that the same dude?)
[22:22] <isaacs> yuichiro masui: http://twitter.com/masuidrive
[22:23] <itistoday> isaacs: do you happen to know if he's lived/visited the US of A?
[22:24] <isaacs> itistoday: according to his twitter location, he's near seattle: http://maps.google.com/maps?q=47.614727,-122.18874&oe=utf-8&rls=org.mozilla:en-US:official&client=firefox-a&um=1&ie=UTF-8&hq=&hnear=%2B47%C2%B0+36%27+53.02%22,+-122%C2%B0+11%27+19.46%22&gl=us&ei=YCeUS4noKYLwsgPTufD8Aw&sa=X&oi=geocode_result&ct=image&resnum=1&ved=0CAgQ8gEwAA
[22:24] <mikeal> ewww Bellevue :(
[22:24] <itistoday> isaacs: ah nice, i didn't think to check there
[22:24] <itistoday> cool, well i'll try him first then, thank!
[22:24] <isaacs> mikeal: hey, people say the same thing about oakland
[22:24] <itistoday> *thanks!
[22:24] <isaacs> :P
[22:25] <mikeal> i've actually lived near Bellevue :)
[22:25] <mikeal> that's a disparaging remark based on experience not on reputation 
[22:26] <aryounce> Anyone run into this error when trying to deal with a http.ServerResponse object?
[22:26] <aryounce> TypeError: Object #<a ServerResponse> has no method 'writeHead'
[22:27] <aryounce> Don't see anything in the channel logs so I thought I'd ask
[22:27] <mikeal> writeHeader
[22:27] <mikeal> not writeHead
[22:27] <aryounce> ugh
[22:27] <christkv> hey guys I registered nodeblogs.com and planning on putting something up there that will also serve as an example app for express and the mongo driver
[22:27] <mikeal> oh shit
[22:27] <mikeal> did that change this week?
[22:27] <aryounce> mikeal: Any way I can volunteer to update the docs?
[22:27] <mikeal> the docs are almost always up to date 
[22:28] <christkv> I'm just thinking blog aggregation and github project aggregation. Any other ideas ?
[22:28] <mikeal> so if I had to guess, if you build ry/node/master right now it'll be writeHead
[22:28] <mikeal> and writeHeader is the release from last week instead of this week :)
[22:28] <aryounce> mikeal: Hmm, I have the release from the 5th I think
[22:29] <isaacs> aryounce: the docs on teh website are up to date with the release link on the websit.
[22:29] <isaacs> aryounce: the docs in the code are up to date with the code, more or less.
[22:29] <mikeal> i don't see a change in the ChangeLog
[22:29] <aryounce> isaacs: I'll rebuild and see
[22:30] <mikeal> i have the master from some time last week and writeHeader still works for me
[22:30] <isaacs> aryounce: so, if you have the code from http://github.com/ry/node, it might not be 100% up to date with what's in the docs on http://nodejs.org/api.html
[22:30] felixge has joined the channel
[22:30] <mikeal> isaacs: i don't see this in the ChangeLog
[22:30] <mikeal> so if it's changed it's only in master
[22:30] <aryounce> I've got 0.1.30 instead of 0.1.31
[22:30] <aryounce> let's see if updating does it
[22:30] <isaacs> line 262 in the latest http.js is ServerResponse.prototype.writeHead = function (statusCode) {
[22:31] <isaacs> and 284-286 is:
[22:31] <isaacs> / TODO eventually remove sendHeader(), writeHeader()
[22:31] <isaacs> ServerResponse.prototype.sendHeader = ServerResponse.prototype.writeHead;
[22:31] <isaacs> ServerResponse.prototype.writeHeader = ServerResponse.prototype.writeHead;
[22:31] Cainus has joined the channel
[22:31] <isaacs> rtfs ftw!
[22:31] <mikeal> hahaha
[22:31] <mikeal> when did that get added?
[22:32] <mikeal> aryounce: can you post the code that is calling this to gist.github.com
[22:32] <aryounce> mikeal: writeHeader was correct. I think I'm just a version behind
[22:32] <mikeal> ok
[22:33] <isaacs> b1b84960 lib/http.js (Benjamin Thomas     2010-02-25 20:54:48 +0000 262), according to git blame
[22:33] <isaacs> aryounce: writeHead is the better one to use.  writeHeader will be deprecated eventually
[22:34] <aryounce> isaacs: No worries. I was just going with the docs
[22:34] <isaacs> aryounce: oh, ok, i get it
[22:34] <aryounce> isaacs: I had built Thursday or Friday, and it had since been updated
[22:34] <isaacs> rigt
[22:35] <aryounce> isaacs: mikeal: Thanks for the help though
[22:35] <mikeal> np
[22:35] <isaacs> np!
[22:35] icey has joined the channel
[22:37] bpot has joined the channel
[22:37] <mikeal> isaacs: i just updated npm
[22:38] <mikeal> and installed the newest
[22:38] <isaacs> ...and?
[22:38] <mikeal> and now the npm bin doesn't work
[22:38] <isaacs> d'oh.
[22:38] <mikeal> it just does nothing and exits
[22:38] <isaacs> hm.  you might have to remove everything and re-do it
[22:39] <mikeal> same problem
[22:39] <mikeal> even after rm -rf ~/.node_libraries/*
[22:39] <isaacs> trying again..
[22:39] <isaacs> hm... works for me?
[22:40] <isaacs> you doing node install-npm.js?
[22:40] <mikeal> why do i have an npm-undefined bin in /usr/local/bin
[22:40] <isaacs> hm... because it didn't get installed right
[22:41] <mikeal> finally
[22:41] <isaacs> you should have /usr/local/bin/npm-0.0.5beta
[22:41] <mikeal> i did rm -rf /usr/local/bin/npm*
[22:41] <isaacs> ahh
[22:41] <mikeal> and reinstalled
[22:42] <isaacs> once these things are a little more stable, i'm going to make the install-npm.js script just update the npm package if it's already there
[22:42] <isaacs> so, as of about now, you should be able to use npm to uninstall something, and it'll also remove the stuff in /usr/local/bin
[22:42] <isaacs> so, to update, it should be something like this: npm deactivate npm; npm uninstall npm; node install-npm
[22:43] <isaacs> er, npm deactivate npm; npm uninstall npm [the old version]; node install-npm
[22:43] <isaacs> it'd be nice if rm/uninstall could remove everything, though...
[22:43] <isaacs> hm...
[22:47] <isaacs> mikeal: anyway, yeah, so now relative requires work in your bins, and you also have dependencies available at require("foo") to pull in the version that's satisfying your package.json file.
[22:48] <mikeal> so it's activated automatically now?
[22:48] <isaacs> mikeal: no, i use magic.
[22:48] <isaacs> mikeal: ;)
[22:48] <mikeal> haha
[22:48] <tilgovi> anyone know how I can get the base directory for the wscript file?
[22:48] <mikeal> in my bin script can i do require('foo') for my own package
[22:48] <isaacs> mikeal: take a look at the code that gets put in the shim.  it links the dep into a folder, then puts that in the require.paths
[22:48] <tilgovi> inspect.getfile(inspect.currentframe()) gives me <string> which makes me think waf must be eval'ing the wscript rather than executing it
[22:48] <isaacs> mikeal: hm, no, but tha'ts a good idea
[22:48] <tilgovi> and there's nothing in conf.env that has the current path
[22:49] <mikeal> isaacs: so require('foo') only works with bin? i thought that's the only shim you have?
[22:49] <isaacs> mikeal: the main.js is a shim, too
[22:49] <mikeal> ahhhh
[22:49] <isaacs> mikeal: i gotta run.  play around, i'll be back later.
[22:50] <isaacs> mikeal: it's all just javascript, so feel free to poke at it
[22:50] <mikeal> i will :)
[22:50] <isaacs> post more issues!  i like that.
[22:51] <tilgovi> ahh, os.getcwd() works
[23:06] <tilgovi> is it v8 coding style to have method names start with a capital?
[23:07] <tilgovi> I'm looking at the postgres example addon and that's all over the place
[23:07] <tilgovi> and args.This() and whatnot
[23:07] <tilgovi> looks like it
[23:08] <tilgovi> ACTION thinks maybe he should flip a coin rather than have the debate rising in his head
[23:17] <aryounce> No path.existsSync()? :(
[23:39] gwoo has joined the channel
[23:51] erikvold has joined the channel
